for the last few years california has
been ravaged by wildfires
the town of paradise was almost
completely destroyed
hi good to meet you you too greta is
meeting local resident julian martinez
who only just escaped the wildfire with
his life
when did the fire occur november 8th
2018. that morning i i woke up at seven
o'clock
and i could hear the wind outside which
was really strong
and over in about that direction right
there
you could see a plume of smoke and so
about eight o'clock
we said okay we gotta start packing up
to get out of here
right when we were about to pull out and
the sky just blacked out
and it looked like night time all of a
sudden and we were able to get out
before the town gridlocked
as the wildfire engulfed paradise its 27
000 residents tried to flee
many recording their escape there's
nowhere to go
oh my god oh my god oh my god i don't
want to get caught there
it's starting to burn all around me oh
my god
oh my god we're burning right here
come on people go the flames moved so
intensely
you know it went from a minor thing to
the whole town was gone within
a couple hours and the roads kind of
acted like a funnel
for the flames they're stuff literally
burning
on all sides heavenly father please help
us i'm never getting out of here
on
i think 86 people died in the fire
there's a sense of guilt that i have for
leaving town so quickly
um you know knowing that there were
i'm sorry i completely understand it
must be very hard
there were a lot of people that needed
help
so you know knowing that those other
people were
left behind is something that
has stuck with me
i feel it's just so incredibly sad i
can't
i can't imagine what you have been going
through
the wildfire that engulfed paradise was
the deadliest california has ever seen
many of the dead were found in
burned-out cars and destroyed buildings
the town is still recovering
there's been people who have committed
suicide after the fire
just because they've had their lives
taken away from them
i mean even right now as we're speaking
there's fires that are popping up all
over california
when you hear about these stories and
especially when you meet these people
you try to imagine yourself in that
situation
how difficult it must have been to lose
everything and
just leave everything behind
we see all of these things repeating
themselves over and over again
people die and people suffer from it
but we completely fail to connect the
dots
five of the ten worst wildfires on
record in california burned during
summer 2020.
thousands of buildings and structures
destroyed
dozens of lives lost
a tragedy by any measure
climate change has increasing forest
fires
in many parts of the world in siberia
in russia in the last cut
and then you also have seen that in
australia with the bush fires